I'm going to tell you the true story of
17 hours this past January where we
thought we might have to enact the plot
of the film Armageddon.
So, this Turkish amateur astronomer G
used public data to discover an asteroid
headed towards Earth. Observatories
around the world corroborated his
findings that indeed there was an object
heading towards us at a rate of
approximately 75,000 miles per second
that appeared as large as 51 m in
diameter. Now, best case scenario, the
thing flies by us with a delta less than
the distance between the Earth and the
moon. Worst case scenario, the thing
hits us like a 23.3 megaton bomb,
unleashing 1553 times the amount of
energy that leveled Hiroshima. So G
alarmed combed through the databases of
NASA's uh Jet Propulsion Laboratory, but
didn't find any known objects that
correlated with his data. The thing was
weird and seemed either to be on its way
to Earth or he reported a previously
unidentified spacecraft heading to Mars.
On January 2nd, 2025, G pinged the Minor
Planet Center, or MPC, at the Harvard
Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. The
MPC validated G's data and gave the new
asteroid a name, 2018 CN41, and
concurred that it was on a potential
collision course with Earth. At 6:52
p.m. Eastern Standard Time on January
2nd, 2018, CN41 was announced to the
public. This caused an immediate
kurfuffle in the astronomical community
and got the attention of astrophysicist
Jonathan McDow, group leader at the
Chandra X-ray Observatory and probably
the character model for Brett Spinner's
performance as the astrophysicist
running Area 51 in the film Independence
Day. McDow is like the guy of tracking
objects in space. In the evening of
January 2nd, he desperately tried to
figure out what 2018 CNN41 was and if it
put the planet at risk.
All celestial objects have movement
signatures. Performative Kepleran
characteristics that make them
individually identifiable as they move
across space and time. The size of an
object's orbit, its shape, tilt,
orientation, and position within its and
in relation to other orbits serves as an
expressive fingerprint. complex motion
that when captured through symbolic
representation makes meaning possible.
Constellations for example are random
clumps of planets and star stuff that by
dent of their relative distance and
respective orbits appear from our
terrestrial perspective to be
correlated. We gave them names and those
names became stories like Sagittarius
the archer and Virgo the maiden. Such
annotations be enabled terrestrial
navigation. Celestial interpretation
became a basis for astrological
prognostication and a way to gro
personal identity. How one interprets
movement through space and time has for
millennia been a matter of
civilizational consequence. So when
McDow looked at the data to, you know,
figure out if we were all going to die
or not, he realized that 2018 CN41 had
specific rare characteristics. Namely,
it occupied a homeman transfer orbit.
This is an ellipse interconnecting two
circular orbits. It's a cornerstone of
orbital maneuvering and interplanetary
mission planning. This weird object was
moving through space and time in such a
way as to signify that it had been at
one point human. With the benefit of
this observation, McDow discerned a
classification error. 2018 CN41 actually
was a previously recorded artificial
object called 2018 017A.
An artificial object 2018017A
was a sweet 288 horsepower midnight
cherry red Tesla Roadster. The remnants
of a publicity stunt concocted by Elon
Musk who in 2018 strapped his personal
Tesla Roadster to a SpaceX Falcon Heavy
rocket in an attempt to literally send
it to Mars. For 17 hours in January, the
world's leading scientists thought that
there was a possibility that a faka
Tesla could kill us all.
Greetings nerds and wilcommen bienvanu
and welcome to this excerpt from my
lecture how to punch space Nazis in zero
G.
My name is Sydney Sky Better. I'm a
Gemini with an ascending Virgo twist and
a Sagittarius moon which scarcely had to
be said out loud. To the best of
available knowledge, my family got
kicked out of Russia in the pograms 100
plus or minus years ago and I've sought
my revenge ever since. My graduate work
was on Anosokalo's super Jewish
anti-fascist choreographies. And my
primary research expertise is choreo
robotics, the interdiscipline of robotic
motion planning and choreographic
theory, as well as dancerly shenanigans
relating to national defense, state
surveillance, and outer space. This talk
is informed by the belief that the best
way to defeat Nazis is by punching them
in their stupid Nazi faces.
When face punching isn't an option, the
next best thing is to laugh at them. So,
please know that my borched belt humor
and obsession with the Nazi punchy
punchy are born out of furious cemetic
blood memory and an orthogonal
interdicciplinarity that made me the
first choreographer to receive tenure at
Brown University.
One might reasonably ask though, why is
a choreographer lecturing me on
astrophysics? What does dance have to do
with outer space, let alone Nazi
punching? Good questions. Smash cut to
156, I'm sorry, 1653 as a 15-year-old
Louis the 14th makes his performance
debut in the role of Apollo, the god of
the sun. He'd claimed the nom dear of
lewasle, the sun king, for the rest of
his long despotic life. Now, just
between us girls, Louie was such a
Virgo. He had like 16 children with four
plus or minus women and would say things
like or I am the state as in the locust
of absolute power within the colonial
French Empire. The literal center of the
known universe was Louis the 14th's
body. Fun fact, Louis the 14th loved to
dance. Within the first years of his
reign, the Sun King transformed the
French monarchy into a dancing machine
wherein all and I mean all aspects of
courtly life were conducted according to
the aesthetics of what came to be called
ballet. I would be hardpressed to
overstate how important dance was to the
operations of France or how
consequential heliocentric aesthetics
would become. Vestigages of this remain
extremely visible all over the western
dance tradition. Think of classical
ballets like Swan Lake. The dancer's
shoulders, arms, and head are curve
linearly organized and always oriented
in relation to the audience. Now, when
ballets were first performed, Louie was
the audience and his court beveled their
shape, oriented their tilt and always,
always, always orbited around the body
of the sun, King Leasim Moa. Now as a
consequence then as now to learn ballet
is to be taught bodily submission to a
despotic celestial power. The French
monarchy therefore and therefore ballet
was the means by which anyone from
courtiers to the colonized interfaced
with the state. If you needed to do
business with France you had to dance.
If you couldn't dance, well, there are
countless stories of statesmen,
tradesmen, diplomats, whatever, who
overestimated their dancing skills and
who were laughed out of the halls of
Versailles. Ballet was bureaucracy. Now,
bear in mind, too, that in the 17th and
18th century, France was doing colonial
shenanigans all over, from Louisiana to
French Guyana. Governors of French
territories literally needed to know
ballet to have a government. The only
problem was that all the people France
conquered didn't give a [__] about
ballet until, you know, France atrocity
them into caring. So if you're a
governor of a new French territory, how
are you going to learn ballet? Back in
France, courtes would have studied since
childhood with dancing masters, highly
trained choreographers, accompanists,
historians, and parliamentarians
allinone. But as the French Empire grew
to transnational scale, it became clear
that the state just couldn't ship
dancing masters back and forth all over
the place. An inconvenient truth that
revealed an unlikely weakness for the
empire. If France couldn't figure out
how to teach the world ballet at scale,
its government would cease to function.
So Louie commissioned his personal
dancing master Pierre Boschamp to create
a novel pedagogic technology of motion
capture. A written algorithm to scale
the transmission of and symbolically
represent the steps, rules, musicality,
orientations, relational movement
patterns and performative priorities of
ballet. A new means to encode the
aesthetic as in ideological principles
of the French state along with the
choreographic centering of the power of
the sun. king. The result was Boschamp
Fuier notation, a first attempt to
notate ballet like a musical score and
to subordinate the world with the power
of dance.
The western dance tradition is chalk
full of this sort of thing. Pretty much
every totalitarian regime since has
tried to put their sizzle on autocratic
dance aesthetics, but this is a talk
about how to punch Nazis. So, it will be
no surprise that the arguably most
successful totalitarian ass clowns at
this particular intersection of art and
technology was, wait for it, the Third
Reich. Smash cut to one of the most
consequential choreographers of the 20th
century, Rudolph van Laban. Born in 1879
in what is now Slovakia, he was a Libra
with a rising Gemini moon, which
probably explains his obsession with
crystals and starting sex cults. He also
had at least nine children with
somewhere between three to five women,
several of whom he was not married to
and who were pregnant simultaneously.
Rings a bell. Anyway, even before Hitler
came to power, Lobon was saying things
like, quote, "Negroes cannot invent
dances. What we associate with them are
only degenerate versions of white
dances." End quote. He was talking about
jazz. Anyway, before it was cool to be a
white supremacist, before the colonial
imperatives of the thousand-year rife,
Lobon, the father of modern dance, was a
eugenic thought leader on the douchebag
bell curve. In 1934, bro was appointed
the director of the Deutsche Tansbune,
essentially director of Germany's dance
schools and festivals. He did all the
things good Nazis are supposed to do. He
coffee clatched with his boss Gerbles.
you know, Gobles, the rich minister of
propaganda and public enlightenment, all
while reporting on Jews and kicking out
non-arans from his dance schools. Laban
was thoroughly implicated in Nazi
shenanigans, even though, as his
defenders tirelessly remind me, he never
officially joined the Nazi party. That's
true. He never officially joined the
Nazi party. He just did a lot of Nazi
stuff, hung out with a lot of Nazis,
spread and supported Nazi ideology,
believed in Aryan supremacy, and was
constantly trying to be friends with
fascist [__]
Still, one of Laban's most important
contributions to the dance was a
notation system, Lobon notation, an
algorithmic assemblage of crystallin
symbols representing bodily movements
relative to space and time. He worked on
this while in the Reich and it was
designed to among other things capture
and promulgate Nazi dances. As with
Bchamp, Laban created a technology of
motion capture and analysis with Nazi
aesthetic as in ideological objectives
baked in. I would be hardpressed to
overstate how institutionalized and
sanitized Laban's work has become. It is
taught all over, usually without
acknowledgement of its Nazi origins.
Laba notation is also to this day used
in contemporary robotic motion planning
systems and it's been used in white
collar corporate recruiting. The
Department of Defense used it to create
multiple intelligence profiles of
Vladimir Putin. Laban's theories about
how bodies make meaning bring the white
supremacist prerogatives of the
thousand-year Reich wherever they are
applied from dance studios literally to
the Pentagon.
Now, colonial [__] like Louis the
14th and Hitler wielded dance and
movement analysis to expand and maintain
their despotic regimes. But given our
current moment in monopolistic latestage
surveillance capitalism, it's useful to
consider that powerful men can be trash
in all sorts of ways. So, as a thought
experiment, please close your eyes.
I'd like you all to picture the owner of
some big industrial commodity, a
manufacturing innovator at a global
scale. Let's say um just spitballing
here uh a car company.
Now imagine the owner of this car
company is a magnate with a propensity
for being friends with Nazis. Is
obsessed with declining white birth
rates. Tends to have kids outside of his
marriage. Is concerned for good white
Americans being replaced by dirty dirty
immigrants. Talks a lot of [__] about
black intellectual inferiority. Loves to
purchase platforms that amplify his
influence. and who subsequently has a
massive, horrifically over loud sway on
American culture.
Okay, please open your eyes and on
three, say the name of the person you're
thinking. Okay, one, two, three. Oh, so
sorry. So close. The answer is Henry
Ford.
The man Hitler called my inspiration who
colonized a chunk of the Amazon and
claimed it christened it Ford Landia and
then proudly accepted the Grand Cross of
the German Eagle, the highest award
Nazis gave to foreigners in 1938, 5
years after the existence of Nazi
concentration camps was revealed in the
press. Smash cut to 1920. And one of
Ford's biggest fears is jazz,
which is quote, "a Jewish creation. The
mush, slush, the sly suggestion, the
abandoned sensuousness of sliding notes
are of Jewish origin. Monkey talk,
jungle squeals, grunts, and squeaks."
End quote. To be clear, he's being
horrifically anti-Semitic and
Olympically anti-lack at the same time,
just in case that wasn't clear. But what
is to be done? Thought Henry Ford, who
was himself, again not a Nazi, but who
Nazis thought was awesome. Ford wielded
a fiction of the American past to
undergur his bonkersly racist
anti-immigrant America first ideology
and sought to combat jazz through dance.
Ford hired a wait for it dancing master
named Benjamin Lovevet to codify and
promulgate a form of dance that actually
originated with African-Americans but
that he reappropriated into what I'm
guessing at least half of you were
forced to do in high school, the square
dance. In 1923, Ford published a dancing
manual with musical scores and notations
along the lines of Boschamp and Lobon
that was all about quote pure white
American tradition. The book was called
Good Morning. After a sleep of 25 years,
old-fashioned dancing is being revived
by Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ford, and it's
filled with diagrams, musical scores,
hot dance tips, and even hotter racist
malarkey. But the choreography, the
book, the notation system, it is just
the tip of the white supremacist
iceberg. Ford mounted a national
campaign to force American schools to
teach square dancing as though it were a
folk tradition when in fact it super
duper wasn't. Ford trained 200 dancing
masters to kick off a propaganda
campaign that got over half of the
schools in America, half of all of the
schools in America to teach square
dancing. To this day, there are 31
states where square dancing is the
official folk dance, including, by the
way, California.
So today, 100 years after Ford and
Hitler hung each other's pictures in
their respective offices, that's a true
story. We need to talk about another car
magnate who is tight with Nazis, has
children like he's personally trying to
repopulate the planet, has a soft spot
for Nazi ideology, is a is snug with the
German ultraright, thinks we should all
just get over the Holocaust, whose dog
whistle colonial plans on and off planet
privilege classical western culture. A
man whose company town in Bokhica has
been recristened Musk Landia who shot
the car into space that scientists
thought would kill us all. Elon Musk.
Recall this performance at Trump's
inaugural.
This is a really specific way for a body
to move through space and time. This is
a highly recognizable bit of
choreography that's managed to maintain
a pretty stable set of meanings over the
decades. It's hard to do accidentally.
Nazis recognize this as a Nazi salute.
But Musk, as his defenders tirelessly
remind me, is not currently enrolled in
the Nazi party. Ergo, he can't give Nazi
salutes. Further, it wasn't a Nazi
salute at all. It was a Roman salute.
Fun fact, Roman salutes not a thing.
Fascists have long claimed ancient
Romans greeted each other with straight
arms. There is zero evidence of this,
but lots of evidence that the Nazis
invented a fake connection to fabricated
Roman culture to legitimize their
totalitarian choreographic yarn. Now,
I don't know what's in Elon Musk's
heart. He does not return my emails.
But surely we can all agree on his
unabashed colonial proclivities which
are so bonker balls that Musk's
billionaire freneommy Reed Hoffman
summarizes Musk's attitude to the world
as Latasmoa.
Musk is friends with and admired by
literal Nazis, but recently claimed that
he himself isn't one because he hasn't
invaded Poland. That is a thing Elon
Musk actually said. Now, wannabe
hedgemans wield art to mask insecurity
and to propagandistically will their
vision of the future of culture into
being. So, when Musk and the military
industrial juggle knob of a company he
owns, SpaceX, releases an image of this
uh an image like this in 2020 and then
four years later sends senior engineer
Sarah Gillis to play the classical
violin in zero G, we should perhaps
learn to take Musk literally. Sarah's a
trained dancer, by the way. We studied
with some of the same people. And here
she's playing Ray's theme from Star
Wars. It's a nice vaguely feminist
touch, but recall too that Star Wars is
an allegory of how to fight Nazis in
space.
If we learn nothing else from all of
these Nazi knuckle dicks and imperialist
ass clowns, let it be that when horrific
men announce their intentions with
salutes, square dances, violins, and
space or whatever, best to take them at
their word. But oi, I have one minute
left in my time and I've not talked
about the practicalities of Nazi space
punching. The first thing you should
really know is that you really shouldn't
punch them at all. Newton's third law of
equal and opposite action means if you
punch a space Nazi in microgravity,
you're basically punching yourself. And
that's why I and other movement nerds
are experimenting with grappling
techniques like zerog jiujitsu because
terrestrial Nazi punchy punchy won't fly
in space. By the way, I told chat GPT
repeatedly to not make the antagonist of
this cartoon a person of color and it
would not. Anyway,
as a choreographer fiercely committed to
actual anti-semitism, I'm asking one
simple as yet unanswered question. How
do we punch Nazis in outer space? It is
a serious research endeavor rooted in
the historical relationship between
bodies, human or otherwise, and the
cosmos. An exploration of how movement
makes meaning out of space and time.
We've got a space Nazi problem, y'all.
And we're going to need new
choreographies of resistance ungrounded
from terrestrial norms. As such, next
fall, I'll teach how to punch space
Nazis in Zerog at Brown University.
We'll hop into parabolic flights, craft
microgravity choreographies, and drill
anti-Nazi grappling formations.
Meanwhile, my conference for research on
choreographic interfaces, and our
podcast, Dances with Robots, are
launching an anti-fascist space camp to
resist all of this plutoaucracy garbage
sauce.
Now, there's so much more to do and so
much we haven't talked today about
today. But look, if you too want to
punch Nazis in space or otherwise, if
you want to fuel the rebellion with your
cash, connections, and emotional
support, please email us at alwayspunch
spaceenazis atbrown.edu.
Get in touch. May the force be with you
and thanks.